Posting Public Replies via API: 

When your middleware wants to post a message back to the customer (e.g. “Your order is on the way!”), you will use the API to add a comment to the conversation. In the API payload, this is done by including a comment object with a body (the text of the message) and a sender_type. Richpanel’s API uses sender_type to denote who the author of the message is. The two relevant values are "customer" and "operator"
pipedream.com
. For an automated reply from your side (acting as an agent), you would use sender_type: "operator" along with your message body. This will create a comment that appears as coming from an operator/agent. By default, an operator’s comment is a public reply – meaning the customer will be notified or will see it just as if an agent responded.

Richpanel does not have a documented separate flag for an “internal note” via the API. In the Richpanel app, agents can switch a reply to “internal” (a note that customers don’t see), but in the API we haven’t found a parameter like internal: true or a different sender_type to mark it private. The Pipedream connector for Richpanel, for example, only offers “Customer” or “Operator” as the sender type for new comments
pipedream.com
, with no mention of an internal note option. This suggests that any comment posted as an operator will behave as a normal agent reply (visible to the customer, sending notifications if applicable). Thus, if you add a comment via API with sender_type "operator", expect that the customer will receive that message. It will show up in the conversation thread as a reply from an agent (it might be attributed to whichever user is associated with the API key, see “bot identity” below).

If your workflow includes an “assist mode” where the AI suggests a reply for the agent (instead of directly messaging the customer), you have to be careful. Richpanel currently doesn’t provide a clear way to insert an internal-only comment via API that the agent can see but the customer cannot. A workaround might be to send the suggestion to the agent through a different channel (like a Sidekick suggestion if they have an AI plugin, or via email/slack to the agent). Another possible approach is to use a tag or custom field to hold the AI-suggested answer and have the agent interface surface that (though Richpanel UI would likely not show a tag’s text to an agent, so this may not be viable). Given these limitations, most likely you will either send public replies or hold suggestions outside of Richpanel. If internal note capability via API is critical, it’s worth asking Richpanel support if there’s any undocumented parameter to create an internal note. (At the time of our research, we didn’t find evidence of one, so assume that API-originated comments = customer-visible.)